So next,
we're going to talk about another concept that factors in to high availability,
and that is the concept of loose coupling.
So by building a modular architecture,
components can do integrate with other components without having to know about
specific definitions or configurations of those components.
So we can enable loose coupling by leveraging services that incorporate things
like load balancers and queues and managed workflow engines.
So let's take a look at how we enable loose coupling
within our machine learning solutions.
So first of all, we can look at leveraging AWS Step Functions,
and this is a workflow service for AWS that enables
us to work with lambda functions, as well as several direct service integrations,
to build workflows.
In addition, we have Amazon Simple Queue Service,
or SQS,
and this is a message queue that enables us to have durable data stored within
queues that we can then use to trigger other executions.
We also have Amazon Simple Notification Service,
or SNS,
and this can handle both notifications out of the
platform by things like email or SMS.
But it also can enable fan‑out implementations within our architectures.
In addition, we have Amazon EventBridge,
and this enables us to integrate event‑based workflows,
for example if we want to be able to trigger something
based on uploading a file into S3.
So let's look at a sample architecture utilizing this concept of loose coupling.
So let's say, first of all, we have a secure facility.
And as a part of this multi‑building facility,
we have some IoT cameras that are set up.
And one of the things that we want to check is we want to be sure
that vehicles that are going to different areas of our secure
facility have permission to be there.
So our IoT cameras are detecting vehicles,
and they're going to take a picture of the vehicle.
And what we want to be able to do is to check the license plate
number and make sure that those cars are designated for the area
that they're supposed to be in.
So with this, once those cameras actually detect that a vehicle is present,
they'll take that image and then take that to S3.
So that IoT camera will upload it into S3.
We then want that to end up within a processing queue.
So we're going to use Amazon EventBridge to put
these new items within an SQS queue.
And this will actually be what we call a FIFO queue, first in, first out.
Now one of the benefits of using a FIFO queue is that we can
make sure that we execute a lambda function exactly once for
every item that gets put into it.
So EventBridge dropping the item into the queue will actually
trigger an execution of our lambda function.
And then what we really want to do is we want to isolate all of the
logic around detecting those license plates and checking if they're
authorized within what we call a step function.
And so the lambda function itself will actually invoke the step function.
Now let's take a little bit of time to understand more about
this step function and what it will include.
So now we have our processing step function,
and the input to the step function is going to be the
image that was uploaded into S3.
And let's say the first step in our overall processing
path is to preprocess the image.
So we have a lambda function that will do that.
Now the step function will know when that process is complete,
and it will then trigger the next lambda function.
And this next lambda function will actually invoke our SageMaker endpoint.
So let's say that we have already configured a SageMaker endpoint
following all the best practices that we've covered so far.
So first, it will reach out to our SageMaker endpoint.
Within the endpoint, we will try to use inference,
and we'll try to use the image data to pull back a license plate
number off of the image that was uploaded.
We'll then get the results back.
And then from here,
we'll be able to go through the process of actually
looking up that license plate.
Now from here,
we can go and look in a DynamoDB table to see if we actually
have that registered for that particular area,
and then we'll get the data back from the DynamoDB table.
Now here's where we can have a choice that gets injected.
If the user is already in the database and they're authorized for that area,
that's perfect.
We can then just log the results.
However, if they're not in the database,
we can utilize SNS to send a notification,
and maybe that notification would send an SMS or an email.
But we also can do what we call fan out here.
So we could potentially do multiple things.
We could have another lambda function that executes based on this.
And then once that notification is sent, we can log the results here as well.
Now let's take a step back from this example,
and let's talk about how we have enabled high
availability with this architecture.
First of all, by using queues,
any failure in launching the step function will be retried.
So the way that the queues work, if we successfully process it,
it's removed from the queue.
But if it's not, it stays there.
Let's say we deploy a bad change,
and it causes our step function not to work properly
or not to be able to be invoked.
In those cases,
we still don't lose any data. And it immediately will pick
up processing once we deploy the fix.
Next,
we're leveraging an event‑driven workflow here by utilizing
EventBridge. So Event Bridge knows how to listen for events on
the AWS platform and also for some configured third‑party events
as well. But in this case,
we're using it to listen for items that are
uploaded within a specific S3 bucket.
Now next, step functions enable customizable retries if a specific step fails.
So we have complete control within the step function's state machine
to be able to say if this particular step fails,
do something else or retry after a period of time.
Now in this case,
we're already enabling high availability because we're following the best practices that we've covered so far for using SageMaker endpoints.